I tried to remmber all , but missed some questions

My Interviews at 2019 
.....................

1) IBM

   what is Richardson MaturityModel ?
   what is and how you will do Databasesharding  ?
   What is eurekaserver and eureka client
   what is N+1 problem
   what is cap therom
   Which design pattern is used to provide object dynamically
   what is transitive dependency
   Relationships in Nosql   
   Spring webflux
   Jvm method areas 

2) Incedo

Round 1
.......
   
   Java and Spring
   ...............
   
   whats is autoboxing
   Internel structure of Consurrent hash map
   difference syncronized collections and concurrent collections
   What is string immutable
   how to make class as Immutable
   what is Real difference between abstract and interface
   What is difference between linked list and array list and whats its time complexity while inserting and searching for a value
   what is spring boot ? and how its differ from sprig mvc and spring framework
   what is difference between Runnable and callable ?
   what happen if i start thread twice 
   what is producer and consumer problem
   what is executors service
   How hashmap works internally and why hashcode and equals method should override?
   how to get second employee salary form employee table
   Java  7 and java 8 features
   what is the use of streams
   how to implement composite key in hibernate
   how agile makes differnce in projects
   
   Front end questions
   ...................
   
  1) What is pipes in angular and how to create custom pipes
  2) what is observable and subscriber
  3) How routing works in angular and what modules reuire to set up
  4) what are the life cycle hooks of angular 
  5) what is behaviour subject
  6) what are the new features in es6 and css3
  7) how position absolute and relative works
  

 Round 2
 .......

   1) What is microservices and what are the advantages and disadvantages
   2) What is api gateway and what framework you used to acheive
   3) what is feign client 
   4) How load balancing works in microservices
   5) Draw one micro service architecture for medical repo application
   6) How to trace the request in microservices
   7) what is splunk and how to integrate 
   8) How rabbit mq works and give one example in microservices
   9) How to maintain data consitency in databases in microservices
  10) what is spring acutator
  11) How logs ara captured using spring aop
  12) what is Junit and Mockito
  

3) Dell
   ....
   
    Round 1
	.......
	
	1) Write one sample rest application 
	2) How to configure autoconfigurations in spring boot
	3) How spring boot works internally and what are the required things to start a spring boot application
	4) Write one rabbit mq producer and rabbit mq listner
	5) Print 1 to 10 with out using for loop 
	6) How to create instances in pivotal cloud and how to add services in pivotal cloud
	7) Tell some sample commands used in pivotal cloud
	8) what is docker and how its differnce between vm
	9) Do you have any idea about how payment gateway works ?
	10) How spring schedular works and can you tell me the annotations we used for scheduling
    11) How to handle exceptions globally in spring and how to write custom exceptions for application based
	12) What is synchronization and concurrency
	13) what is jackson implementation
    14) How you do integration tests
	
   
   Round 2 and Round 3
   ...................

    In round 2 , they tested how i understand the projects almost 45 mins round was happen ,  they asked about flow , architecture and technologies
    Mostly asked question are how business works, and why you choose this flow , why cant use different technologies

   In round 3
   ..........
   1) String duplication
   2) Sql queries to find the ranks of student with score columns
   3) What do you know about dell and why you are intrested to join
   4) what are the challenges you faced in curent project and how you manage
   5) At which time you will go for microservices architecture
   6) what is vertical scaling and Horizantal scaling
   7) How threads works and how can i used shared variable for threads
   8) How to save a files in servers(Objectstreams)
   9) a pow b + b pow a = 1245; what is a ? and what is b ? 
  10) what is kafka 
  11) Compiler vs interpretor
  12) How you maintain configuration(properties) in your application and how it works for non prod and prod environments
    
 
4) GE

   Round 1
   .......
    Written test
	
	1) Custom implemnetation of Hash map
	2) Company can generate pens(n) , what is the least days to generate n pens
	   constraints
	   ..........
	   1) company can increase production by 1 or double the production 
	   2) Time complexity should be less than 0(n)
	   
	 ex:- client requires 7 pens to generate 
     day  1 - generated 1 pens - single 
	 daya 2 - genarted 2 pens  - double   
	 daya 3 - genarate	4 pens - double 
	 
	 Totally for geneating 7 pens he took 3 days
	 
   
   round 2
   .......
   
   1) Request to draw microservice architecture for amazon 
   website
   2) what is single point of failure in your drwan structure
   3) what is rxjs and redux
   4) write a sample program for binary tree
   5) what is factory design pattern
   6) how to implement multiple thread functionality using executors
   7) what is completeble future
   8) How angular 2 version is differ from angular 1 
   9) how you minimize the loading of pages in angular or react
  10) what is angular pipes
  11) How datbase consitency maintains in microservices
  12) what is docker and kubernetes
  13) How Amazon s3 is configured in your application

   
   Round 3
   .......
   
   1) what is circuit break pattern and fault tolernce pattern
   2) how pivotal cloud is differnt from amazon 
   3) how to load millions of data from database at instant
   4) how to make automate flow service calls (A->B->C->D)
   5) Eureka registery 
   6) How hystrix works and what are the annotations used
   7) What you learn new technologies which is not part of your project
   8) what do you know about our company 
   9) what is config server 
  10) Hibernate mappings for one to many  
  11) how you add custom services in pivotal cloud
  12) what is idanywhere and how you implemented in your project
  13) what design pattern you will prefer while object creation(Object pool or Single ton-- i said) and why ?
   

5) Barcode (Only for front end)  

   what is prototype
   what is Hoisting
   How to get keys and values from json object
   what is apply and call 
   write sample code for sorting in javascript
   how to inject services in angular
   how to draw a circle with using css(with out image)
   what is float in css
   how responsive handles in your project
   what is webpack and what are the files requires to configure
   what is ajax and how its works
 
